you just finished up your new gaming rig
you boot it up and
nothing
in desperation you pull out your cpu and
you see it
the pins
they're gone
accidents will happen guys believe me i
totally get it
and sometimes
accidents happen to you
one of our fine viewers ethan i hope
you're doing well had a little accident
a couple months back with his shiny new
ryzen 7 3700x
and he managed to break three of the
pins
clean off now sometimes you'll get lucky
and the pins are just bent and they can
be easily straightened other times
you'll get uh just a little bit lucky
and you can't straighten them but you
pop it in and oh great it turns out the
broken pin was a non-essential extra
grounding pin or reserved pin or
something like that other times you
press the power button and
nada
well that was ethan but fortunately he
still had a little bit of luck to spare
and traded his completely
non-functioning chip for some merch from
us so that we could take a crack at
fixing it with just a few cheap and easy
to get tools and some other supplies
that you might have lying around your
house
speaking of around your house grizzlies
oh geez i hope not
but thermal grizzlies conductor not
liquid metal tim offers maximum cooling
performance check it out and keep things
cool at the link in the video
description
[Music]
before we start let's talk about the
tools we're going to need a magnifying
light like this would be ideal but a
regular magnifying glass will do in a
pinch and if you go that route you're
also gonna need good light because you
need to see the tiny teeny little pins
that we're gonna be working with so a
desk lamp or ideally two so that it's
illuminated from two different angles
would be freaking fantastic
next you're going to need a hot air
solder stick can you stay please
stay
good boy
next up you'll need a hot air solder or
smd rework station you can think of this
kind of like a regular soldering iron
but with a fan attached to it so instead
of poking and prodding at the things
you're trying to solder potentially
knocking them over or you know
accidentally dabbing the tip into the
pcb we're just going to be able to take
the hot air that comes out of the tip of
it and kind of heat up the entire area
that we're trying to work on without
touching it now normally these include
tips
we seem to have misplaced ours and the
replacement tips weren't a prime item so
we're just gonna yellow it with the big
old fat tip you'll need a good set of
tweezers we really like these ones from
ifixit as well as some flux this will
help our solder flow very nicely as we
are putting the pins back on we're going
to need some solder masks these are
available cheaply on sites like
aliexpress or ebay the one we're going
to need in particular is the .65
millimeter pitch one because that
matches the pin arrangement of our cpu
as you can imagine you're not going to
want to blow super hot air onto your
kitchen countertop so we recommend
something like a couple of fireplace
bricks like this or failing that a nice
large sheet of many layers of aluminum
foil so something like
five six seven of them and anywhere from
kind of seven inches or around 20
centimeters square it's really important
to make sure that your entire work area
is clean and clear because the last
thing you want to be doing is bumping
something over or accidentally touching
a hot surface now that all our tools are
set up all we need is the donor
what
donor
what the it's not a big deal the thing's
already dead
you know what screw it i'm going to
embrace it
bring in the donut
our first order of business is to
harvest some good pins so we're going to
set our station to somewhere between 300
and 350 degrees celsius
here's a hot tip by the way
hey e get it the hotter the temperature
the faster the solder melts but also the
faster you can damage your components
slowest move smooth is fast
grab your tweezers and pick a good
candidate for a straight pin that you
want to pull off
start to heat up the area and don't burn
yourself
when you see the solder at the base of
the pins get really shiny that means it
is melted so pick off the good pins that
you want to use grab an extra one or two
keep the area hot until you're done then
place the pins off to the side to cool
is this taking too long again no
okay i swear to god if these don't melt
oh
well we got one
blue
there's one
there's another one
all right
there's another one right all right we
getting the hang of this boys
the last thing you want to do while
you're at this
is pull too hard because then you can
actually rip off the pad and once the
copper contact point comes up off the
cpu
you are done well that's more important
for the one that's not already dead i
guess ah there's a perfect example see
that we ripped off the pad if we do that
on our working cpu game over ladies and
gentlemen one thing to watch out for
guys the cpu and the end of your
tweezers are going to be
hot
don't touch them
that's not a smart idea let them cool
down for a few minutes and while you're
waiting why don't you refresh yourself
with some ice cold water ltt store.com
i'm going to be the next billy mays hey
it's lions sebastian here with extra
heavy duty alcan foil it slices it dices
oh my god my fingers
at this point we strongly recommend
practicing reattaching pins to your
donor cpu before
all right all right all right enough
we strongly recommend reattaching them
to your donor cpu until you're
comfortable with the whole process
now i don't have time for that somebody
ordered some tech tips on ubereats and
uh
these babies ain't gonna deliver
themselves so
we're going straight to our new cpu
hoping for the best here so we're just
going to go ahead and pop that on make
sure that that is in fact actually yep
okay that works just fine and this gives
us a really good look
at the broken off pins on our cpu i
don't know what ethan did here because
they are straight almost cleanly snapped
off which unfortunately is gonna make
the job of removing the pins from the
pads
a little bit trickier even with these
teeny tiny tweezers it's going to be
hard to get a good grip on those dang it
ethan i really hope i don't knock off
any additional pins too while i'm at it
i actually kind of wish i had practiced
before doing this i mean you know the
saying though practice is for chumps hey
number two is out this last one's the
hardest one
come on
yes
now i just gotta find where that uh
first pin fell
how hot's the cpu
ah
okay yeah it's oh it's in there ow ah
dang it brandon can you see this can you
ow
yeah i got this i got this can you see
it there oh man i think it might have
stuck back on there
you know what
and it's gone
perfect
20 bucks this thing works when i'm done
i don't actually bet money though so
it'll have to be like lunch
all right so now we're going to put our
mask on for real there you go that's an
important step
then we're gonna add a little bit of
flux
just around the pins that we're trying
to reattach here
now is a great time to clean our pins so
just a little bit of isopropyl alcohol
and some tissue paper
wipe the contact pad there
clean pins will adhere a little bit
better something to notice that the flux
we're using is a bit of a thicker box
that's going to help hold the pins in
place while we are heating up the cpu
now let's go ahead and stick our pins
where they go oh why am i doing this
left-handed now you can do the pins one
at a time but we are opting to position
all of the pins on the cpu so we're just
going to go full hail mary heat the
whole thing up and hope they all kind of
snap back into place here oh crap
i just wanna i just wanna
push this one over a little bit why am i
doing this left-handed well i lied i
know the answer the answer is that it's
because i need to show the camera okay
i'm pretty sure that's about as good as
it's gonna get right now
time to heat this baby up
oh and it blew them over okay we need
more flux more flux okay get off there
all of you there you go we've got like a
flux booger on there all right this is
not easier
um
okay i think that's where that one goes
my certainty level is very low
yeah i kind of put i think too much flux
on so we're gonna try to melt our flux a
little bit to give give us a better look
at what the crap we're dealing with here
yeah it's not getting easier
man you guys should go watch that other
guy's guide on this he does it better
than i do
okay i'm doing this right handed i give
up i can't i can't show you guys what
i'm doing because i need to do this with
my with my dominant hand can i just put
this on first and then slip the mask
over top
so another thing is i think last time i
kind of blew it over whereas this time
i'm going to come straight down on it
it's going to snap into place
why do i doubt that hold on hard bail
hard bail i'm bailing
okay
none of those are attached okay new plan
we are putting the we're putting all the
pins on and slipping the solder mask
over top because i don't think these
pads actually slip through here they do
not
well that's good oh my god we can just
put the pins in the solder mask
nicholas
bad instructions
holy crap that's how you're supposed to
do it
this is so much easier so all we're
going to do now
is line the pins up in the solder mask
did you manage to reattach pins the way
you were doing it yeah
well you're a genius i actually cannot
do this with this stupid light in my way
okay there we go
getting hot in here so take off all your
pins i don't know if i would describe
them as having
snapped into place but they're
definitely pretty straight like we
should be good by now right
all right gonna let it cool down we're
gonna pull the mask off and see if the
solder soldered
i'm gonna use my very sophisticated
cooling technique
here you go what do you think all the
pins gonna come up
they stayed
that's a good sign but that doesn't
necessarily mean they are attached
nope no that one's loose af
they're all loose i hate this i'm not
having fun anymore there's still a lot
of flux
but the problem is that it no it blows
it over right away we're going in hot
kind of makes sense that the mask would
actually slow down the
process i guess
okay so it's not melted
oh my god is this heated up yet
oh one of them just moved for sure this
is supposed to be like a quick and easy
video we were like oh you know yeah what
about that dead amd cpu we got those
solder masks yeah sure we'll just you
know we'll put the pins back on it
oh boy i think we ruined it it's
not great
but the pins are on there
that could just be some burn flux so can
you see how crooked they are did we try
and throw it in a socket at this point
are these pans longer than this cpu
though hold on a second
oh my god they're longer well let's see
if they even fit in the socket
you know i specifically asked you if the
pins were the same didn't i you can tell
just looking at it nicholas your only
way out of this
is for the audience to just love how
much you've been messing with me for the
last 45 minutes so brandon how excited
are you to find out if this works i have
faith you have faith but the thing is
sometimes you can kind of straighten
them out
with the socket even after re-soldering
them i might need to bend them a little
no
this one is not attached well enough
crap we gotta heat it up again
holy sh just loosen actually they all
seem to be on now
all right
i have a new and fresh concern nicholas
these pins look like they might be a
little thicker well we'll see if they go
in there
moment of truth time now boys and girls
i don't know if i actually want to know
or not
quick get another one let's fake it
we never actually do that guys no signal
detected
those fast spinning fans are the that is
not a good sign do you want to grab a
different cpu and let's make sure the
bench actually works wait this is an
x370 pro
has it been bios flashed
so we're gonna put an actually out of
the box compatible motherboard on the
bench
so cross hair
something or just get out i'm in a hurry
this is known as a speed motherboard
swap
okay we're going with the broken one
we're going straight for the hail mary
here
feels like i'm having oh shh
they're moving
well that was either a good sound or a
bad sound no it's not making it okay
trying the known good cpu just to make
sure there's not something else wrong
with our configuration here
this is an x570 board right
470 is not compatible out of the box
necklace
no
i can't keep track of which crosshair
number corresponds to which damn chipset
okay asus take notes
just call it the crosshair
x570 okay
and if you do another one call the
crosshair x570-2
there you're welcome
is this an x570 motherboard
i want you to read it off the
motherboard itself
it's in there i saw it it's fine okay we
have to take another we have to hit it
with this
so like what do i do
it doesn't melt
[Music]
i'm fine
honestly if this thing managed to
survive being heated up and cooled down
this many times like this it's you know
kudos to amd you know you get a bunch of
no
come on
a different pin just came off
we're back where we started
three missing pins do you want to take a
break from this nope
one more
time
[Music]
and it blew one of them over show me the
snap into place you horrible piece of
garbage no but the ones next to them
aren't melted
nothing is melted like is this the right
temperature
i'm going up
[Music]
melt you piece of garbage every one of
these pins should be melted right now
and they're not i'm cranking it to 450.
just flow
that didn't do it i don't know what can
nope never mind this just pulled the
thing right off we actually
managed to reattach the three pins that
we were trying to last time but the pin
that i was using to check and see if it
was melted that one did not reflow so we
need to put a new pin there now doing
more flux
and it's dying that one's solid that
one's solid
the one we just tried to attach is solid
i think all the pins are on this one's
bent at a bit of a funny angle but maybe
we can just give it a little
well let's get a heatsink on it
how how how
[Music]
lost a pin again putting this back on
for the new billionth time
okay brb
that's hilarious all the pins just
snapped into place
i'm pretty sure it reflowed this time i
think it's the camera operators i think
they will us to fail
okay you might as well roll on this
gave it one more crack without the
camera rolling so i get this light out
of my way and actually see what the heck
i'm doing
and as far as i can tell
all now five of the pins that we've had
to either reattach in the first place or
reattach after knocking them off
are solid and more importantly i
actually got that snapping effect and
everything is lined up real nice now
just goes to show you as soon as you
turn on a camera
it's in
why does it just say amd 50. i don't
care about amd's 50th anniversary right
now i just want to know what's going on
with this computer
[Music]
what
was that
no way
yes
[Music]
okay
i can't even believe it
it's all dry at fifth rising seven you
had no reason to have faith brandon
ryzen 7 3700x a core processor 64 gigs
of ram i'm gonna put two more sticks in
i'm afraid to feel too good about this
yet show me all four sticks where is it
oh yes there it is
oh
it works
let's do it live okay
there's the hdmi cable okay you can tell
it's the right one because the tv is
going to turn off you see that i am
shutting down this system i am pulling
it off because there's always some
jackass in the comments that's like uh
uh fake uh pre-recorded
yeah carefully oh those pins are a
little bent it's kind of hard to take
out and there's a lot of flux in that
socket now so that's pretty cool
but there it is
that's the one
you know how you can tell because
there's a bunch of pins that are taller
than the other ones at the back so guys
you might be thinking at this point gee
linus that looked like a lot of work and
frustration why would you want to do
this well reason one i think is pretty
obvious out of necessity maybe like
ethan you accidentally dropped your new
cpu while you were attempting to install
it another could be to save a buck maybe
like us you found a sweet deal on an
upgrade but it's got some pins that are
bent or broken or maybe you just want to
learn a new skill if rpgs have taught me
anything more skills even if you have no
idea what they're for yet are always
worth putting at least a few points into
that was about the most stressed out
i've been since probably the last time i
did an amd cpu pin repair video which
coincidentally is still
running that cpu because it actually had
a broken pin and all we did was jam a
little piece of metal or pin into the
socket and then put it on there so i
couldn't like take the cpu off because
it would unfix it um so ncix didn't want
it back and i was like oh okay my
parents need an upgrade that system
still runs to this day i had a bunch of
haters on that video to be like oh it's
a bad way to fix it it won't last
it sure did just like my segways will
last forever to our sponsor squarespace
for sponsoring today's video you may
have heard about squarespace it's the
easy use system that allows you to make
a website in just minutes they're a
leader in website design and their
all-in-one platform allows you to create
your website and even do things like buy
domains you can create email campaigns
even you can make any website with
squarespace from a personal portfolio to
a resume to a fan fiction website to
even shopping websites you can sell
stuff they have website analytics tools
to help you keep track of how your
website's doing and find all the weak
areas to get a steady stream of traffic
and their award-winning templates will
help your website stand out instead of
looking like it's from the 90s we use
squarespace for alignus media group and
ltxexpo.com we built them both quickly
and we maintain them with squarespace
and if you get stuck like we have at
times you can reach out to their 24 7
support team via live chat and email go
to squarespace.com ltt for a free trial
when you're ready to launch you can get
10 off at our link in the video
description
so thanks for watching guys i am going
to go have our studio managers inventory
this cpu because i just traded a bunch
of merch for a 3700x
yay go linus
so guys if you like this kind of diy
nonsense you might also enjoy our finale
of our red camera water cooling series
go check that out and subscribe to see
that when it comes out wait that one's
not yet by the time this comes out i
suspect it will be so go check it out
and subscribe anyway honestly i feel
like i earned this yeah yeah between the
hours i put into it and the merch that i
paid for it i don't even feel bad i'm
keeping it